# Latest Updates (2026/04/16)

Tested with ESPHome 2026.4

I ran [Google Jules](https://jules.google.com/) Coding AI against this repo, it found a few issues which I promptly fixed but it seems that it's information is outdated by a few month, 6 or more in my opinion, so I would definitively not use it for generating ESPHome files.

In short, the WiFi and a couple of other modules are being rewriten to cater for deployments outside your home, this means you will be able to prepare a ESP32 package and connect to a WiFi AP using improv or the captive portal.
I ask for some patiance for me to write the neccesary code and test it.

Another update is coming soon!

1. Removed incomplete files
2. common/core/settings.yaml

   \[x] Changed OTA in settings file to use API only

   \[x] Expended Safe Mode

   \[x] Added a safe mode button

   \[x] Added some disabled by defaults  to avoid unnesesary clutter
3. peripherals/display/dfrobot\_096\_160x80\_spi\_gdi.yam, fixed some typos
4. peripherals/display/dfrobot\_28\_320x240\_spi\_gdi.yaml, fixed some typos
5. peripherals/display/dfrobot\_35\_480x320\_spi\_gdi.yaml, fixed some typos
6. peripherals/display/dfrobot\_20\_320x240\_spi\_gdi.yaml, fixed some typos
7. sensors/analogue/ph\_sensor.yaml, fixed some typos
8. scripts/common/network/wifi.yaml

   1. Fixed bug in WiFi Signal Strength and removed dynamic icon. I will investigate if there is a new way this can be done, see https://developers.esphome.io/blog/2026/03/12/icon-and-device-class-getter-migration/ for more information.
   2. Fixed embedded lamdas
   3. **<span style="color: #ef4444">BREAKING CHANGE</span>** Wifi setting have moved to the wifi\_fixedip.yaml or wifi\_dynamicip.yaml reference to one of these files is now requited in the device file!
   4. Added network\wifi\_fixedip.yaml config file and network\wifi\_dynamicip.yaml file.
   5. Various other improvements and clean up

9. Cleaned up comments in various files
